---
title: "Year in Review 2020 \U0001F525 (WIP)"
date: 2020-11-06T18:26:29.743Z
description: |-
  This year was... interesting. 
  Workin in Progress blog post. I’ll finish before Dec 31st 11:59 EST.
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /content/assets/fp-marquee-copy-70.jpg
thumbnail: ../assets/featured-img-of-post-226572.jpeg
tags:
  - "\U0001F525"
---
2019, I toured Europe for the majority of the year — some in Amsterdam, a little in London. I, an optimistic and ambitious new consultant, decided my first year as a full time consultant should be taking advantage of the remote work with her 6 year old beagle in tow.

I’d be remiss to discuss both 2019 or 2020 if I didn’t discus how my career has evolved along with my focus on my mental health. The move to Europe was a calculated one that began after a break up mid 2018, that should have broke my heart, but only broke my will. There were no tears, there was just this odd, empty end of interesting possibilities — insert obscure Steven Universe reference about Garnet’s future vision. I planned and planned and what was supposed to be Paris with my first big software engineer break, after teaching myself to code for the previous four years, but ended up being consulting and betting on myself since no one else would take a chance on this black girl. 

## I leaned on my community...

\
I made an excellent bet and haven’t looked back. I went from living out of a few suitcases with my dog 2,000+ miles away from anyone I loved in 2019 to 2020: I’ve traded Euro cafés with my first dedicated home office (with a door!), a true community with a big brother, [Tim Allen](https://glittertech.dev), a new interdisciplinary [brain trust](https://glittertech.dev/braintrust) 🧠 of my favorite qpoc (we affectionately call ourselves the South Philly Queers on Wheels as we’ve all head out skatepark friend dated with boards and quad skates), partnering with my sister [Brooke Wages](https://glittertech.dev) as a technical liaison for a [TBA Black Entrepreur Confrence at MIT](https://glittertech.dev), and being just a month shy of an anniversary with a new team Two Rock Software, founded by two of the most encouraging and fun developers I’ve had the pleasure of working beside — it makes sense that I was introduced by one of the most straight-shooter, pragmatic, bright and kind people I’ve met [Erin Mullaney](https://glittertech.dev).

## When the going got tough, the tough got going... 💪🏾

A lot of you may be first introduced to me through [this not-so-viral tweet](https://twitter.com/ve4tm/status/1321641275704152064?s=21), that inspired a lot of action. From it I created [Volunteer Engineers 4 The Movement](https://ve4tm.dev), a collective of black tech professionals developing applications for good. We organized around 20+ projects and leverage each other as a resource in teams and ideas. The flat, no hierarchical, decentralized structure allows it to be a community of self-motivated individuals rather than a movement propelled by ego. 

## Antiracist code

June was a tough f*cking month. I was paralyzed. On top of the pandemic, the community I desperately missed and informed my move back to the United States, and Philly in particular, was having another reckoning. Tensions rose and people were dying. I saw videos of angry South Philly white men stomping through streets I recognized and I boarded up at home — telling me that my people simply asking to not be murdered in the street was an affront to them personally. I saw thousands, inspired and afraid and sad, coming forward with their trauma, hoping another anecdote will humanize the already well known statistics: at every level, at every interaction with the system we are confronted with racism both de facto and de jure. [Black Trans Women have died at the highest recorded rates this year.](https://glittertech.dev) In my heart, but also proven through data, I know this is a result of finally counting the humans’ that have their lives unjustly snuffed out AND addressing them by their CORRECT names and pronouns — the double dehumanizing damage. I’ll speak more about the work I’ve helped with my favorite abolitionist, pro-lgbtq and HIV+, and specifically black trans woman led organization: Black and Pink, below in the section titled **Finally Launched 🚀** .  In June, I cried most days; some days it was all day. I worked the lowest number of hours I ever had, while available work piled up — impacting me down the rest of the summer and early fall (yes, I am a working class dev) This deep pain, motivated to put into action my passion project: [At The Root, the first antiracist license for open source code, named after a quote ](https://attheroot.dev)from the brilliant black, queer activist Angela Davis: “Radical simply means ‘grasping things at the root’”. To learn more about Ethical Source, or how to help contribute to the first version of the license, please visit our page. We are looking forward to our first release soon, pending partnership going public and a potential podcast episode with an amazing antiracist warrior in her own right. In addition to the Antiracist license there is the [ATR Checklist, which provides specific ways that your project can be antiracist and is also open for PRs at any time! ](https://attheroot.dev)Please contribute.

## \
Finally launched 🚀 

Bottom line on top: With the partnership of Two Rock Software, we finally launched the [Black and Pink PenPal Pairing App](https://www.blackandpinkpenpals.org) that I’ve wanted to get launched for two years. Imagine me, a baby queer in Kenan-Flagler Undergraduate Business School participating in the Out for Undergraduate Business Conference in 2012. I was fresh in my networking career, so I made more Facebook friends than I did professional contacts - but BOOYYY did I have fun in New York. Tanya Nguyen was one of those contacts and after posting about my django journey for my cheering and friends and family online, she reached out to me about Black and Pink’s half done app built in Django and React. I had just finished a modern fullstack Node/JavaScript bootcamp — I never talk about my bootcamp experience for many reason that will show up in a blog post one day — while working full time as a project manager for Lenovo ecommerce and I had a brand new mentor [Zân Anderle](https://glittertech.dev) (now mentor and close friend), and I had been teaching myself django and Python for about 3 years. The project scope was huge. I didn’t know where to start and I jumped both feet in to the messiest part of the code. It’s been a long way with prioritization and editing focus. We switched from ActBlue to EveryAction CRM, changed the front end, adjusted requirements for volunteer and admin tools and even launched a [Holiday Card Feature](https://glittertech.dev) in response to covid! I’m incredibly honored to work with a Black Trans Woman run non profit with a legacy of doing the work. 

\
Things I learned...



What’s Next...
